>> Steve Kinney: What my challenge for you
is again, we can remove some of the ones.
You don't need as many boxes as you want.
What we kind of do is want to get that
traditional blog layout where you've got
a header going across the top, a sidebar
either side, your choice, and a footer.
The sidebar should be a static amount and
kind of get that top, bottom,
that master detail view that all the time
we see in macOS apps, where we would see
something along the top, any kind
of webpage we've ever seen before,
the header, the footer, and
then two columns in the middle.
But responsive,
we want a one column layout.
So we'll start out and I won't
totally give you the answer just yet.
And honestly the exact
details are kind of,
I'll leave it as
an exercise to the reader.
We don't want that order there either.
That's that min height killing me there.
And this row span three.
Just cleaning up everything.
And you can use as many of the nine
as you want and everything.
But we wanna ust kind of have that header,
footer, sidebar.
But where it starts out on mobile,
something closer to this, right?
And then kind of as we grow out,
like this should be along the top.
These should be siblings to horse's side.
And maybe 4 is a footer.
If you wanna have more in there, you
wanna have two sidebars, have fun, do it,
I'm here for it.
Any of those that make you happy, whatever
kind of layout that changes, right?
But our job is to mix some amount
of the ordering, the spanning and
the break points for
some layout that makes us happy.
If it's something slightly different or
something that like applies to you,
go for it.
We can try out different versions
together in about 10 minutes, I think,
just to play around with it.
And we'll try out different ideas and
try some challenges out like that, but
definitely try again.
We want to mix the breakpoints,
the ordering and some of the Colin and
Roast band to try a few of these out for
ourselves.
The kind of goal that I'm going for
implicitly is like this kind of pattern,
not that pattern.
We've got a sidebar,
we've got the header along the top,
we've got the content, right?
As you can see, the sidebar always stays.
I'm zoomed in, so
I get to that mobile view real fast.
We get a single column in mobile,
the sidebar kind of moves up.
The header always takes up the full width,
so on and so forth along the same line.
That you kind of commonly
see in this case,
the goal is to take this
very simple stack layout and
kind of do some of the more
traditional layouts we might see.
Again, I am happy for challenge mode,
but let's do the assignment first and
get to the point where we would like
to have everything else in place.
Okay.
So this one, the challenge is somewhat
straightforward where we might.
What we wanna do is kind of
have this eventually get to
that kind of sidebar kind of piece
where these stack at some point.
And so I think grid calls one for
starting out with seems great.
And that is effectively the default.
So as you can see, nothing really
changes when we get rid of that.
Effectively, at the largest,
it is grid calls two.
Unless we decide to do two sidebars,
which, you know what?
Just to make things interesting for
ourselves.
Why not?
I'm feeling spicy, I need a challenge.
So we wanna have a main
body in the center.
Two sidebars, whoa, right?
So that we know that at
least let's say large,
we want to do grid calls three.
That is not going to
get us there just yet,
because that is not
what I was looking for.
So what we want to also say is,
for that top and
bottom, we'll say at the large breakpoint,
we're gonna say that it is
a grid calls three as well.
So it'll span all three.
That's not what I want.
I don't want grid-cols-3.
I want call span three.
Call span three.
Cool.
And so we've got that for
the top piece, right?
The bottom will do the same thing.
So at the large breakpoint.
Nope, col-span-3.
Look at that.
We're getting there.
I like it.
Cool, cool, cool.
And so,
then we wanna kind of get these to,
that 3 takes up most of the space, right?
And I kind of feel like,
cuz I get to make my decisions.
So I let you make your
decisions when you did it.
I kind of want the sidebars at that point
to be kind of, like, fixed in size.
So I'm gonna say that
instead of grid calls three,
we're gonna say the first
column should be.
I think 20 rem is what I put on my site.
We'll have the middle one take
up as much space as it needs.
And that second bonus sidebar,
let's have it be smaller.
Maybe it's like icons or something.
I don't know.
So now we kind of get to,
we have these two sidebars that work
the way they're Supposed to work.
And we've got that other
piece there as well.
We can even say that the height should be.
Well, it's actually, let's say
the height goes at large will be.
So H screen is another just fun one that
wasn't worth dedicating all the time to.
It's just saying height should
be 100 view height, right?
So that's the full size of the screen.
And so now we have another problem here,
which is we need our rows to
kind of be laid out correctly so
we can do something like there's
a bunch of ways I could do this.
I could give the header a max height.
I don't hate that.
But let's try LG grid rows.
Do something similar.
That is too many REMs.
20 rems, that's a lot of rems.
Right, and we kind of get
something similar there as well.
Let's jack that down to 4.
And so now we get this
stacked layout on mobile and
then magically as we get bigger, we get
this kind of more like blog like layout.
And again, did not take.
Now remember, for the grid columns and
grid rows, you can either
give it a number and that will work and
that will give you evenly sized ones.
It's basically repeating.
Like it's basically.
They'll take up an even amount.
You can also.
And that underscore is a space in this
case you can kind of see what it's doing
under the hood, which is if we
look at the CSS that's generated,
it's saying Grid Template Columns 21 FR10
and just putting some comments in there so
you can see the pixels.
Because none of us can do
that math in our head.
Did I print out a REM to pixel to tailwind
size thing at my desk at one point?
Like a dork?
Yes.
But then I just learned to just hover
over stuff and not do that anymore.
And now I'm not embarrassed
when people come over.
So yeah, we can put in arbitrary
values and like we said before,
you can put in arbitrary values whenever.
Now what I will warn you is that like if
you do it too much with your colors and
stuff like that, right,
like it gets weird.
You should probably do that in the theme,
so on and so forth.
But like for
stuff like the grid where that's usually
almost always like a one off thing,
it's totally legit versus having to jump
back to a theme for a one off question.
Cause you're kind of like defeating
the purpose of tailwind at that point.